<h1>UK and China agree £45m pig semen export deal</h1>
Environment secretary Owen Paterson says he has also begun negotiations to export pigs' trotters to China
<byline>Nicholas Watt in Chengdu</byline>
<url>theguardian.com</url>
<date>Wednesday 4 December 2013 10.35 GMT</date>

Britain has won the right to export pig semen to China in a deal
worth £45m a year.

Owen Paterson, the environment secretary, who is accompanying David
Cameron on his trip to China, has also embarked on negotiations to
export pigs' trotters – a local delicacy – to China.

Under the deal with China, the "porcine semen" can be flown to the
country in frozen and fresh form. Pigs will not be flying but their
seed will take to the air.

A No 10 spokesperson said: "We're doing all we can to ensure that
businesses up and down the country reap the rewards from our
relationship with China. And that includes our pig farmers. This
new deal to export pig semen will be worth £45m to UK firms and
means Britain's best pigs will help sustain the largest pig population
in the world.

"And we're not stopping there, we're talking to the Chinese about
serving up pigs trotters on Beijing's finest dining tables. That
would be a real win-win – a multimillion pound boost for Britain
and a gastronomic treat for Chinese diners."

The exports start in the first quarter of next year. Four UK
artificial insemination centres, based in England and Northern
Ireland, will start making preparations for the exports in the new
year.

Half of the world's pigs are in China but the country needs to
improve pig genetics. A government source said: "China has an
interest to increase the efficiency of their production, while
minimising the environmental impact of increased production. The
UK industry for pig production can play a large and important role
in helping China achieve greater efficiency through the provision
of high-quality genetic stock.

"UK porcine semen will be key to help the Chinese improve their pig
production and make the industry more productive in the long term.
The quantities are not the important factor for this trade; it is
the quality that is important."
